# Y1-Sem2-CALab1

1. Write a Python function fractions( DNA ) which takes a non-empty parameter,
DNA. When the input is composed of the characters 'C', 'G', 'T', 'A'. The function
will return a tuple which gives the fraction of occurrences of each of these letters
in the overall string, in the above order.
If the parameter is composed of any other combination of string value(s) the
output only reflects the input for these 4 characters ('C', 'G', 'T', 'A').
Also, strengthen your code to cover errors generated by possible incorrect input
parameters.
For example:
fractions("TTACACTTAT") ⇒ (0.2,0.0,0.5,0.3)
fractions("CC") ⇒ (1.0,0.0,0.0,0.0)
fractions("F") ⇒ (0.0,0.0,0.0,0.0)
fractions("FT") ⇒ (0.0,0.0,1.0,0.0)
fractions("1") ⇒ (0.0,0.0,0.0,0.0)
fractions(1) ⇒ "input must be a string character"

2. Consider the following function:
def F( S1, S2 ) :
  R=[]
   for e1 in S1:
    for e2 in S2:
      if e1 == e2:
        R += [ e1 ]
        break
      return R
      
a. Rewrite the function F above using 2 while loops, calling the function
F_while( S1, S2 )

b. Rewrite the function F above using list comprehension, calling the
function F_list_comp( S1, S2 )

c. Rewrite the function F above using a subset of map, lambda, zip, filter
and reduce, calling the function F_lambda( S1, S2 )

d. Rewrite the function F adding error control to strengthen the function,
calling the function F_error( S1, S2 )

3. Write a Python function frequencies( s ) that returns a sorted dictionary. Where
each key is a distinct item in sequence s and the corresponding value is the
number of times that the item occurs in s.
Also, strengthen your code to cover errors generated by possible incorrect input
parameters.
For example:
frequencies( "CCABBADCAC" ) ⇒ {"A":3, "B":2, "C":4, "D":1}
frequencies( [4,7,4,7,4] ) ⇒ {4:3, 7:2}
frequencies (1) ⇒ "input is incorrect"

4. Write a Python function firsts( s ) that returns the string formed from the first
occurrence of each item in s.
For example:
firsts("mississippi") ⇒ "misp"
firsts("abcdefg") ⇒ " abcdefg "
firsts("aaaaaaaa") ⇒ "a"
firsts("") ⇒ ""
firsts(123454321) ⇒ "12345"

5. The idea of “hiding” a message inside a larger data object (text file, image etc.) is
known as steganography. Write a Python function extract(text, n, m) that takes a
passage of English-language text as a string, a number n, and a number m, that
recovers (and returns) the hidden message by taking the 'n'th letter of every
'm'th word of the text.
 For example, when applied to the passage shown below the function,
 extract(text, 1, 5), should return the string “attack”.
 text = "Yesterday I saw an aardvark while walking my pet tortoise, Frank. What a
 sight this was! Aardvarks are nocturnal animals appearing in daylight with
 caution. Make sure to bring kippers when you visit"
 Also, strengthen your code to cover errors generated by possible incorrect input
 parameters, example:
 extract (text, 6, 5) ⇒ "There is no character 6 in the word - this"
 extract (text, 2, 2) ⇒ "There is no character 2 in the word - I"
